# CNC-Drawing-Machine
Abstract:
This project shows how to design and building low cost Arduino plotter machine based on the open source hardware and software. The Arduino plotter machine has been dependent on the principle of Computer Numerical Control with limited area depends on the motion X, Y and Z axes. The objectives of this project are to design the Plotter. Basically, this plotter machine uses two nema 17 stepper motors for X and Y axis movement and a servo motor to control the movement of pen attached to plotter head. these three stepper motors are controlled by CNC V3 shield for movement (X, Y and Z axes). This machine’s movement on the X axis is 300 mm and Y axis is 300 mm. Length of travel means the linear movement of stepper motors that control for X, Y and Z axes from point to another point. The left and right movement controlled by X axis stepper motor, front-back movement controlled by Y axis stepper motor and the pen is up-down that is controlled by Z axis servo motor.

Introduction:
The world has become a high technology with a lot of things becoming smaller and thinner. The fast-growing development of technology and manufacturing, Industrial requirement such as good and high precision quality has helped in developing the CNC machine plotter all of those can be achieved through machines that can be controlled by computers such as Computer Numerical Control (CNC) machine. To implement CNC plotter machine, several concepts must be understood such as: understanding fundamentals, Machine Mechanical design, CNC machine hardware, test each one of three axis stepper motors and connecting CNC Machine with the software tools and test it, Three axes of CNC plotter machine can do movement starting with three primary axes which are X, Y and Z axis. The Z axis is being paralleled with the X-axis.We must understand fundamental of the plotter machine, Machine design by solidwork software, implementation Machine hardware and wiring connection, Development software, test each one of three axes stepper motors, finally connect machine with Universal G code sender software tools and test Machine.

Objectives:
The objectives of this project are to design the CNC Plotter Machine and to modify open source software and hardware to control it.
